# 2.3.0

* Changes affecting all `DomZipper` implementations:

  * Greatly simply the `DomZipper` base abstractions.
    * `DomZipper` is now the minimal interface
    * `DomZipperBase` is the helper abstract class that most implementations can extend for more out-of-the-box functionality.

  * Add to all `DomZipper`s
    * Methods to ensure that DOM doesn't change in the middle of an observation:
      * `def startConsistencyCheck(): () => F[Unit]`
      * `def ensureConsistency[A](f: this.type => A): F[A]`
    * `def prepare[B](f: Self[F, A] => B): () => B` for eagerly validating the DOM path then extracting effectful functions

  * `DomZipper`s are now comonads, meaning the following methods now exist:
    * `def extract: A`
    * `def map[B](f: A => B): Self[F, B]`
    * `def extend[B](f: Self[F, A] => B): Self[F, B]`
    * `def duplicate: Self[F, Self[F, A]]`
    * `def unmap:  Self[F, Dom]` -- not part of comonad but related; it undoes all `.map` and `.extend` application

  * When `.collect` and `.children` queries fail, they now include path & html info in the error msg (like descent failures).

* Add a `dom-zipper-jsoup` module to use Jsoup for in-memory HTML in the JVM

* Add a `DomZippersFastAndSlow` for fusing two different zippers over identical content;
  one as a slow source-of-truth zipper with real DOM,
  and another as a fast inspection-only zipper.

* Selenium

  * Add `FastDomZipperSelenium` as a Jsoup-backed fast alternative to using Selenium for observation.
    This typically results in a speedup between 5-50x!

  * Add extension methods to Selenium `WebDriver`:
    * `def addStyleTag(content: String): Unit`
    * `def disableCssAnimation(...): Unit`
    * `def onShutdownQuit(): Unit`

  * `.dom` is now `.dom()`

  * Add to `MultiBrowser`:
    * `def onShutdownClose(quit: Boolean = true): Unit`
    * `def onShutdownCloseRoot(): Unit`


* JavaScript

  * Revise the JS `DomZipper` implementations:
    * The `{,Html}DomZipper{,At,Root}` set of types have all been replaced by a single, simple `DomZipperJs`
    * You no longer specify the DOM type of the focus and children at the zipper level,
      but as you extract the DOM
      (eg. instead of `.asHtml.dom` use `.domAsHtml`)

  * Add extension methods to `dom.Document`:
    * `def addStyleTag(content: String): Unit`
    * `def disableCssAnimation(...): Unit`

* Add to core `Dsl` instances: `.withPreActionAssertion` to perform an assertion just before executing any actions.


### Migration

```sh
find . -type f -name '*.scala' -exec perl -pi -e '
  s/\b(?:Html)?DomZipper(?:At[A-Za-z0-9_.\[\]]+)?\b/DomZipperJs/g;
  s/(?<=[. ])htmlDomZipper\b/domZipper/g;
  s/(?<=[. ])as *(\[[ a-zA-Z0-9.]+\]) *\.? *dom\b/domAs$1/g;
  s/\. *as([A-Za-z0-9_.\[\]]+) *\. *(doms?)\b/.$2As$1/g;
  s/ *\. *asHtml\b//g;
' {} +
```
